sections/error-handling.md, before:

______________________________________________________________________________
# Error Handling

## Error Response Payload

For some errors returning the HTTP status code is enough to convey the response. Additional error information can be supplemented in the response body. For example; HTTP 400 Bad request is considered to be too generic for a validation error and more information must be provided in the response body.

Defined here are the attributes of the error object:

| Error attributes | Description | Mandatory? |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `id` | Identifier of the specific error | Optional |
| `detail` | A human-readable explanation specific to this occurrence of the problem. | Mandatory |
| `code` | An application-specific error code | Mandatory |
| `source` | An object containing references to the source of the error, optionally including any of the following members:pointer: a JSON Pointer [RFC6901] to the associated entity in the request document [e.g. "/data" for a primary data object, or "/data/attributes/title" for a specific attribute].parameter: a string indicating which URI query parameter caused the error | Optional |
| `source > pointer` | JSON Pointer [RFC6901] to the associated entity in the request document [e.g. "/data" for a primary data object, or "/data/attributes/title" for a specific attribute]. | Optional |
| `source > parameter` | A string indicating which URI query parameter caused the error. | Optional |

The returned error objects must be in a collection (array) – see the examples for details.

## Input Validation

There are two types of input validation errors

|Request Validation Issue | HTTP status code|
|------------- | -------------|
|Not well-formed JSON | `400 Bad Request`|
|Contains validation errors that the client can change e.g. missing a mandatory field | `422 Unprocessable Entity`|

## Error Samples

A sample 400 Bad Request error response:

```javascript
{
  "errors": [{
    "id": "86032cbe-a804-4c3b-86ce-ec3041e3effc",
    "detail": "Invalid value(s) in request input",
    "code" : "19283",
    "source": {
      "parameter": "postcode"
    },{
    "id": "45786a8f-452e-492f-a779-801b5d0bd0a7",
    "detail": "Input value(s) exceeded maximum length",
    "code" : "19284",
    "source": {
      "parameter": "last_name"
    }
  }]
}
```

A sample 500 Internal Service error:

```javascript
{
  "errors": [{
    "id": "86032cbe-a804-4c3b-86ce-ec3041e3effc",
    "detail": "Downstream system is not responding correctly"
    "code" : "500",
  }]
}
```

Commit message:

Added comments to extend the error object schema as per business requirements.

sections/error-handling.md, after:

______________________________________________________________________________
# Error Handling

## Error Response Payload

For some errors returning the HTTP status code is enough to convey the response. Additional error information can be supplemented in the response body. For example; HTTP 400 Bad request is considered to be too generic for a validation error and more information must be provided in the response body.

Defined here are the attributes of the error object, which may be extended to include additional attributes as required to meet specific business or enterprise requirements.

| Error attributes | Description | Mandatory? |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `id` | Identifier of the specific error | Optional |
| `detail` | A human-readable explanation specific to this occurrence of the problem. | Mandatory |
| `code` | An application-specific error code | Mandatory |
| `source` | An object containing references to the source of the error, optionally including any of the following members:pointer: a JSON Pointer [RFC6901] to the associated entity in the request document [e.g. "/data" for a primary data object, or "/data/attributes/title" for a specific attribute].parameter: a string indicating which URI query parameter caused the error | Optional |
| `source > pointer` | JSON Pointer [RFC6901] to the associated entity in the request document [e.g. "/data" for a primary data object, or "/data/attributes/title" for a specific attribute]. | Optional |
| `source > parameter` | A string indicating which URI query parameter caused the error. | Optional |

The returned error objects must be in a collection (array) – see the examples for details.

## Input Validation

There are two types of input validation errors

|Request Validation Issue | HTTP status code|
|------------- | -------------|
|Not well-formed JSON | `400 Bad Request`|
|Contains validation errors that the client can change e.g. missing a mandatory field | `422 Unprocessable Entity`|

## Error Samples

A sample 400 Bad Request error response:

```javascript
{
  "errors": [{
    "id": "86032cbe-a804-4c3b-86ce-ec3041e3effc",
    "detail": "Invalid value(s) in request input",
    "code" : "19283",
    "source": {
      "parameter": "postcode"
    },{
    "id": "45786a8f-452e-492f-a779-801b5d0bd0a7",
    "detail": "Input value(s) exceeded maximum length",
    "code" : "19284",
    "source": {
      "parameter": "last_name"
    }
  }]
}
```

A sample 500 Internal Service error:

```javascript
{
  "errors": [{
    "id": "86032cbe-a804-4c3b-86ce-ec3041e3effc",
    "detail": "Downstream system is not responding correctly"
    "code" : "500",
  }]
}
```
